feat: Set up config templates for N1 Console (#1233)
nginx/documentation: content/nginx-one/nginx-configs/config-templates/import-templates.md

---
nd-docs: null
title: Import templates
toc: true
weight: 100
type:
- how-to
---

## Overview

This guide explains how to work with configuration templates in NGINX One Console.

In this guide, you will learn how to:

- Import base and augment templates into NGINX One Console
- Submit templates with values for preview rendering
- Review the rendered configuration and any validation errors
- Save the configuration as a new Staged Config in NGINX One Console

> ## Before you start
> 
> - You have access to the NGINX One Console in your organization. For details, see [Before you begin]({{< ref "/nginx-one/getting-started.md#before-you-begin" >}}) in our Get started guide.
> - API credentials to use the Templates API. For more information, see [Authenticate with the API]({{< ref "/nginx-one/api/authentication.md" >}}).
> - Access to the `tar` command.
> - The **absolute path** for your NGINX configuration file (for example, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`). This is required when submitting templates for preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Before you start

Make sure you have the following:

- Access to the NGINX One Console in your organization. See [Before you begin]({{< ref "/nginx-one/getting-started.md#before-you-begin" >}}) in the Get started guide.  
- API credentials for the Templates API. See [Authenticate with the API]({{< ref "/nginx-one/api/authentication.md" >}}).  
- The `tar` command installed.  
- The **absolute path** to your NGINX configuration file (for example, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`). This path is required when submitting templates for preview.  
```

## Create template archives

This section provides step-by-step instructions to create template archives. You can import these archives into NGINX One Console with the Templates API.

### Archive structure requirements

> Each template archive must contain:
> - **Exactly one `.tmpl` file** (required) - contains your NGINX configuration template
> - **One `schema.yaml` or `schema.json` file** (optional) - required only if your template uses variables. For more information, see [Schema Definitions]({{< ref "author-templates.md#schema-definitions" >}})
> - **No other files** - additional files will be ignored or cause import failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each template archive must contain:

- **Exactly one `.tmpl` file** (required) - contains your NGINX configuration template
- **One `schema.yaml` or `schema.json` file** (optional) - required only if your template uses variables. For more information, see [Schema Definitions]({{< ref "author-templates.md#schema-definitions" >}})
- **No other files** - additional files will be ignored or cause import failure
```

```text
<archive-name>.tar.gz
│
├── <template-file>.tmpl
└── <schema-file>.yaml
```

> ### Naming conventions
> Use the following convention for archive and template file names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Naming conventions

Use the following convention for archive and template file names:
```

> #### Archive names
> Name your archives to clearly reflect their specific use case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Archive names

Name your archives to clearly reflect their specific use case:
```

**Good Examples:**
- `load-balancer-base.tar.gz` - Base template for load balancing
- `reverse-proxy-base.tar.gz` - Base template for reverse proxy
- `cors-headers.tar.gz` - Augment for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) header configuration
- `ssl-termination.tar.gz` - Augment for SSL/TLS termination
- `rate-limiting-http.tar.gz` - Rate limiting for HTTP context
- `rate-limiting-location.tar.gz` - Rate limiting for location context

> **Avoid Generic Names:**
> - `template.tar.gz`
> - `config.tar.gz`
> - `nginx.tar.gz`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Avoid Generic Names:**

- `template.tar.gz`
- `config.tar.gz`
- `nginx.tar.gz`
```

    
    server {
        listen 80;
        server_name _;
        
        {{ augment_includes "http/server" . }}
        
        location / {
            proxy_pass {{ .backend_url }};
            {{ augment_includes "http/server/location" . }}
        }
    }
}
EOF

cat > schema.yaml << 'EOF'
$schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#"
type: object
properties:
  backend_url:
    type: string
    description: "Backend server URL"
required:
  - backend_url
additionalProperties: false
EOF

tar -czf ../reverse-proxy-base.tar.gz *
cd ..

# Create CORS augment template
mkdir cors-headers && cd cors-headers
cat > cors-headers.tmpl << 'EOF'
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' '{{ .cors_allowed_origins }}' always;
add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Methods' '{{ .cors_allowed_methods }}' always;
EOF

cat > schema.yaml << 'EOF'
$schema: "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#"
type: object
properties:
  cors_allowed_origins:
    type: string
    default: "*"
  cors_allowed_methods:
    type: string
    default: "GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, OPTIONS"
required:
  - cors_allowed_origins
  - cors_allowed_methods
additionalProperties: false
EOF

tar -czf ../cors-headers.tar.gz *
cd ..

> # Create simple augment without variables

Author: ```suggestion
# Create augment without variables
```

location /health {
    access_log off;
    return 200 "healthy\n";
    add_header Content-Type text/plain;
}
EOF
# No schema.yaml needed - template has no variables

tar -czf ../health-check.tar.gz *
cd ..

# Final structure
ls -la *.tar.gz
```

### Tips

1. **Do not create nested directories in archives**
   ```bash
   # Avoid - nested directory structure is not supported
   tar -czf template.tar.gz template-dir/
   
   # Correct - keep files at root level
   cd template-dir && tar -czf ../template.tar.gz *
   ```

2. **Do not include unnecessary files**
   ```bash
   # Avoid - hidden files, backups or other file extensions will be ignored
   tar -czf template.tar.gz *~ .* *.bak *.tmpl schema.yaml
   
   # Correct - only include required files
   tar -czf template.tar.gz *.tmpl schema.yaml
   ```

3. **Include schema for templates with variables**
    - If your `.tmpl` file contains `{{ .variable }}`, you must include a schema file
    - Import will be rejected without proper schema

4. **Do not include multiple template files in one archive**
    - Each archive must contain exactly one `.tmpl` file
    - Create separate archives for related templates

### Ready to import

> Once you have created your archives, you can import them using the [Import a template API]({{< ref "/nginx-one/api/api-reference-guide/#operation/importTemplate" >}}) operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the archives, import them using the [Import a template API]({{< ref "/nginx-one/api/api-reference-guide/#operation/importTemplate" >}}) operation.
```

#### Required API parameters

In addition to your template archive, the import API requires several parameters. Read the API specification for full details, but the key parameters include:

**name** (required):
- A unique name for the template within your organization. Use the same as the archive name for clarity without the extension (e.g., `reverse-proxy-base`, `cors-headers`, `health-check`).

**type** (required):
- `base` - For main NGINX configuration templates
- `augment` - For templates that extend base configurations

**For Augment Templates Only**:

> - **allowed_in_contexts** - Specify which contexts this augment can be included in (e.g., `http`, `http/server`, `http/server/location`). Understanding where your augment fits within NGINX configuration structure is crucial for proper integration. See the [Template Authoring Guide]({{< ref "author-templates.md" >}}) for detailed information on contexts and how to design augments that integrate correctly with base templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **allowed_in_contexts** - Specify which contexts this augment can be included in (for example, `http`, `http/server`, or `http/server/location`). Knowing where an augment fits in the NGINX configuration structure is crucial for integration. See the [Template Authoring Guide]({{< ref "author-templates.md" >}}) for details on contexts and designing augments that integrate with base templates.
```

#### Import validation

During import, the system will validate:
- Archive structure (one .tmpl file, optional schema)
- Template syntax
- Schema validity (if provided)
- Variable references match schema definitions

> {{< call-out "caution" >}}

Author: I agree

> The `allowed_in_contexts` parameter is required when importing augment templates. The import process validates that this parameter is provided, but does not validate whether the contexts are valid for your template's NGINX directives. Context validation occurs during template submission. Ensure your specified contexts match where your NGINX directives can legally appear to avoid submission errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `allowed_in_contexts` parameter is required to import augment templates. The import process checks that this parameter is included, but it doesn’t confirm whether the contexts are valid for your template’s NGINX directives. Context validation happens during template submission. Ensure your specified contexts match where your NGINX directives are allowed to appear to avoid submission errors.
```
